# Thesis Abstract
This thesis aims to apply machine learning (ML) models for the length of stay (LOS) in intensive care units (ICU) with the infection and diagnostic features and compare the feature importance with distinct XAI techniques. A publicly available database, the MIMIC-III clinical database, was utilized. It consists of clinical data of patients who stayed in the ICU of the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center between 2001 and 2012. The result indicates that Random Forest (RF) has the best prediction performance among five ML models (MSE, 0.4061; MAE, 0.4921; R-squared, 0.2936; adjusted R-squared, 0.2758). In terms of the comparison of XAI methods, SHapley Additive exPla- nations (SHAP) and the permutation feature importance test have a relatively high similarity when ranking the most important features, and their Spearman correlation is 0.76. By applying ML models and XAI techniques, the thesis aims to find effective and transparent strategies to predict ICU LOS, which can help hospitals better allocate their medical resources. In addition, it proposes to encourage the usage of artificial intelligence (AI) systems in the healthcare area.
# Files
- Thesis script.ipynb: File containing the relevant code used for the analysis of the thesis. It contains the process of data cleaning, ML model construction, and XAI analysis.
- mimic-iii-clinical-database-1.4: A publicly available database used in the thesis
- intro_to_mimic_db: The introduction of the MIMIC-III clinical database